# Sports at IIT Delhi

Sports have always been an important extra-curricular activity at IIT Delhi. We have facilities for almost all sports and excellent coaches who are always eager to take in new students and practice with players everyday to make the best out of them. Numerous sports events are held throughout the year where all the sports enthusiasts are given a chance to participate and excel.

The Sports events begins with the inter hostel tournaments in September where 11 boys and 2 girls hostels compete for the General Championship. In mid October trials for selection of the institute team are held. The Institute team participates in the Inter IIT sports meet, which is the biggest event of the Board for Sports Activities: a ten day sports meet in December held every year in one of the seven IIT's. The inter hostel competitions go on till February. The month of March begins with the sports fest of IIT Delhi: The Sportech. Around 20 colleges from north India compete in this four day fest. Apart from the main competitions, many league matches are organized with other colleges in Delhi. 

All these events require dedicated and regular practice for which the institute provides ample facilities. Near the academic area, in front of the Bharti Building is the hockey and athletics field. These green well kept fields equipped with flood lights are always open for students to come and play. Right next to it is the cricket ground and pavilion. There are two basketball courts: for the beginners as well as pros. Then there is the football field where we have coaches from Baichung Bhutia School of Football. 

To the right of the SAC circle are the Tennis courts. Tennis has always been Delhi's strong point in the Inter IIT sports meet. There are clay as well as synthetic courts. Adjacent to the tennis courts are the volley ball courts and "The Wall" for wall practice. Thanks to the flood lights, students are found playing tennis and volleyball as late as at 1 am in night. 

The Student Activity Center houses the Table Tennis, Squash and Badminton Courts. There is a gym, with separate timings for boys and girls and a weightlifting arena. For indoor sports we have billiards and snooker table and those facilities can be availed by getting a Pool membership.

The swimming pool isn't functional now but there are many options nearby like the pool near JNU and in Munirika where the aquatics team practices. Beginners can also learn swimming by paying a nominal fee at these swimming pools.

Every year in the summer break, 3-4 weeks' sports camp is organized. The players get to practice in the morning and evenings to increase their strength and endurance. Freshers and Beginners are always encouraged and welcome to learn any sport at IIT Delhi. Regular practice and dedication can make everybody a champion, even if one has no experience in sports.
